Gwenevere Abriel: Lauren
Gwenevere Abriel: Fallen on that one side works. And then the other one doesn't.
Lauren Anderson: There we go. Got it. Am I, are you straight my
Gwenevere Abriel: Are vertical
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hello. How are the
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you doing, physically has the same stability in there.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah I slept a little better. Last night, I think the the colon. The colon colon as a beam.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know it's quantity quantity
Lauren Anderson: It seemed to help. I took one with the circle last night and it helped and I started to feel anxious this morning because I'm
Lauren Anderson: Getting close to 24 hours for the sides and I took it because it says up to three times a day with
Lauren Anderson: Clonidine, so I took another one this morning, and it did help a little bit with my
Lauren Anderson: Anxiety and feelings of, you know, I need to take my meds, like
Lauren Anderson: Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gotcha. So what time of day do you normally take the buprenorphine.
Lauren Anderson: I was taking it to and
Lauren Anderson: Then I I I took it way too soon, and then to send again so now i'm i'm actually back up all the way to 6pm if that makes sense. Not forward but back that I see.
Lauren Anderson: Okay, what kind of my head. Really, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think the point with was again I'm just a messenger. I've just been listening to, to what the doc has been saying. And I think it's less about when you take it more than once you pick a time
Consuming
Lauren Anderson: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I
Lauren Anderson: wasn't feeling real good on the on the Mount. I was on was I think partly what I was trying to do so now them on the three. I'm trying to stick to the same time. So, forcing myself to wait. Okay, well at 6pm so
Seems
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so the weird, I just got to say the weird part that what you're putting yourself through that the rest of every other client doesn't put themselves through is being awake.
Gwenevere Abriel: During so right there's okay I took my medicine and now it's all in my blood level and then these people are still sleeping. They're sleeping and they wake up in the morning and they take it in the morning. This is you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, let me try and see where are you, where the heck are you, you're like a
Lauren Anderson: Bit better but took it in the morning. So you're thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, because yeah because the rest. I'll say us because it's easier. The rest of us are sleeping during the downward part of the roller coaster we're asleep, and you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, you're awake suffering and I'm like why would she do that yourself. I mean, maybe there's a piece that I don't understand. But like I would be because most of my clients are like
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I woke up. But, you know, at five or six and so then we start to adjust it just slightly, but they're not waiting all day because you're having to wait all day. That seems like undue torture to you.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah. Well, it started, I was taking it in early mornings. And then when I am
Lauren Anderson: I didn't have the medication and actually didn't get, get it through at the doctor told the evening that time or something or or afternoon. That's why I started at 2pm or something. It's that's when I picked up the prescription. So that's when it got switched to that time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you be open to
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to nose around outside my lane, and I'm not a medical clinician, but would you be open to discussing that with the physician and saying, you know, when brought up this point.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you could tell you this, you could tell the
Lauren Anderson: Client take it in the morning with your donors on it. And that worked really well for me, like, first thing in the morning.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah, so all that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, how to get there. So it's like okay well now. Maybe I'll take it for at 321
Lauren Anderson: To say
Gwenevere Abriel: And then kind of inch your way back in time. You see what I'm saying, like moving back the other way towards the morning, then
Lauren Anderson: Maybe for a couple days, take a half dose in the morning and a half at night and I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly, exactly. Yeah, but I'm just worried about you. Cuz, cuz you have you're sitting there like during that kind of a rough. That's like the roughest time and you're wide awake for it. Like I wouldn't want that.
Lauren Anderson: Well, I probably wouldn't sleep. If I were you know it would keep me up if I were feeling withdrawals. He, too, so I don't know.
Lauren Anderson: But alas, the doctor, I think in the long run, they'll be better from taking it in the morning, for sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so we checked on the physiology. Let's check on the psychology
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you doing on an emotional level. I heard a little bit of anxiousness you were saying.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah, I'm, you know, kind of like starting to count the minute before it's time to take my son.
Lauren Anderson: So I
Lauren Anderson: Started feel emotional and anxious and stuff.
Lauren Anderson: And I'm still really frustrated, cuz I
Lauren Anderson: Keep coming
Gwenevere Abriel: Back for two seconds just the
Lauren Anderson: Emotional because it's important
Gwenevere Abriel: So just think about this particular dose of treatment. This is a talking dose right this is us talking and you're here at two o'clock.
Gwenevere Abriel: And your emotional and anxious, most people that are activated the memory. They have the campus isn't going to do a great job of remembering things, it's unlikely that new information that you and I
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of work on and whether it's skills or we do some reprocessing it's unlikely to stick. So the talk therapy medicine part won't be as effective. That's another reason why it might be nice if you were kind of at a nice optimal optimal feeling when you and I need is that
Lauren Anderson: Well, what I wanted. When I was about to say was, I still since since detox. Um, I really haven't felt good, not any hour of any day. I still have not. I've not gotten to a
Lauren Anderson: Point where I feel good and feel like doing anything. Oh, I'm still I'm still waiting for now I want to practice for hours a day. I really do. I'm walking my dog. I do. Do I make sure to do that. I mean, even that my worst that was making sure to that every day but um
Lauren Anderson: But I mean, I don't know, I, I'm used to having not really on the heroin, but it in my lifetime and everything.
Lauren Anderson: I don't know. I usually read a lot. I usually have a lot of energy and what to do not saying that. And I do want to them by just don't feel up to it. I just
Lauren Anderson: And I don't usually I mean I talked to subs would help more with that kind of because I know that's from the heroin like
Lauren Anderson: How gives you. I used to joke that the only time I felt good enough and up to quitting was when I was hot, because I had the confidence and the euphoric feeling that I could do it.
Lauren Anderson: And when I was sick or lean and, you know, I knew it was impossible. And I couldn't do it. And you know, that's, I think that's why a lot of people go straight to treatment right after they use because
Lauren Anderson: It's what gets them in the door helps give them that. But anyhow, I'm so I really haven't reclaim that with the with the subs that I had before the heroin. Yes. I mean, I wasn't really doing anything at the end of their when except walking my dog and laid down all the time.
Lauren Anderson: So,
Lauren Anderson: Can I slept before us Bureau busy so i don't know i'm just i'm willing to feel good enough to even even do a little bit each day like start cleaning my damn house.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can I say something
Lauren Anderson: Yeah, sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to see if Dr. Aubrey also available to meet with us now because what you're talking about is my client, you still isn't stable, I can't, I don't know how useful like we can do some work. I can talk to you about some things but
Gwenevere Abriel: You sound just the way you're describing anxious and emotionally sound exactly as
Lauren Anderson: You're describing it. I'm frustrated. I was, I don't know. I know it's already I'm already on a big dose. I just, I don't even know. I'm like, maybe it just doesn't I'm immune to it. Now it's, it doesn't work for me because I really thought it'd be feeling better by now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't think it's immune. This is I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Never in group. I think I, I was asking you specifically I was I wanted to know how much was really important that we talked about how much, how often member I pushed it grew by
Gwenevere Abriel: A few right
Lauren Anderson: And I don't want to talk about all in group because at the
Lauren Anderson: End. Remember I was doing a family.
Lauren Anderson: That was doing probably
Lauren Anderson: four grams a day, once I started doing my buddy went up from three to four because I had to do more for it to work. Basically because
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, and I never asked people how I just wanted to
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: These, these people, everybody's been through the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me just go see if I can get ahold of her
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I just, I just don't think you're going to benefit too much from
Lauren Anderson: Whoops. Let's see what we got here.
Lauren Anderson: But I have. I've still been doing better on the cocaine. I had like a crazy craving the other day and then tried to scrape my strong did like a tiny line, but I was doing it every day. And I've still since I started on the Wellbutrin
Lauren Anderson: Like about a week and a half ago now, I, I've not been doing. I mean, I just did that one line that's great for my straw, about five days ago when I was having a bad moment. But otherwise, I've not been doing it and I was doing it every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, this this this rate of speech. The way you're talking. Now, does this feel normal for you.
Lauren Anderson: I have some social anxiety. So in person with people I talk non stop. A lot of times, yes. Okay.
Lauren Anderson: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: But this rate, even though you may have, like, like you wonder, I wonder if this is part of a social anxiety. At this rate, how quickly you can you can speak, that's normal for you right
Lauren Anderson: Pretty normal. Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's rapid
Lauren Anderson: Because my mom crazy
Let me just see if I can coordinate some
Lauren Anderson: Girl.
Lauren Anderson: Oh boy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, she's finishing up a meeting, so she's going to join us in a little bit. So let me hear a little bit about some context, you probably told me, but
Gwenevere Abriel: You know information during that bio psychosocial comes to me so fast. It's hard for me to retain, are you, um, are you living alone with just your mosquitoes.
Lauren Anderson: Yes.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I just struck me
Gwenevere Abriel: That social anxiety thing I just remembered something wasn't you, that talked about
Gwenevere Abriel: Hearing. Was it a step mother that was terribly negative to you.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you share a few stories are kind of let me in a little bit about that what that was like.
Lauren Anderson: I wasn't closes to age to her only child closest in age to her only child, as I think that's my theory is. That's why I got the brunt of it like the worst of it.
Lauren Anderson: Because she did do it to my siblings. Also, my, my brother who's older and my sister who's much younger. Um, I mean, it's like things. I don't know. I wouldn't say to my worst enemy.
Lauren Anderson: But maybe it's partly because I learned from her how bad it fills, but I don't know, just really she used to make fun of me for example.
Lauren Anderson: Right after they got married, I was a it was the end of my sixth grade year, and she started to harass me on a daily basis about how dorky I was making fun of my clothing and that I was ugly. And then I had no friends that I was a loser. So, um,
Lauren Anderson: When then this was a daily tirade I mean every day and she would just laugh and point and make fun of me and everyone joining in the sets the way she did it.
Lauren Anderson: Oh my gosh, my siblings to she called my brother nigger knows my sister pirates dream concave chest
Lauren Anderson: Snuggle tooth.
Gwenevere Abriel: where we're at in this as someone to talk to. Intel, this was going on.
Lauren Anderson: He tried to defend me sometimes, and they would end up fighting and eventually she would threaten divorce and he would try and just
Lauren Anderson: Keep her
Lauren Anderson: Or something.
Lauren Anderson: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't like it. I don't like it. I like it.
Lauren Anderson: Apparently I left my senior year to live and ironically with her older sister, my step moms older sister in California, and it was one of the most therapeutic things I've done
Lauren Anderson: Or sinister apparently she'd been like that since she was about three or four years old and she started to rule the house.
Lauren Anderson: You have you look at a yearbook of the whole things like dedicated to her. It's basically a thing to worship my step mom real real prettiest flight attendant total bitch makes fun of people
Lauren Anderson: And also easy to talk to. I think she also taught me to
Lauren Anderson: Not be repressed. I mean, maybe it's almost like sometimes TMI kind of thing. But I don't hold stuff in, you know, my mom is that way.
Lauren Anderson: We'll closed off, which wasn't the best combination. I mean, I don't think she probably helped me enough when I was little, because she's not very touchy.
Lauren Anderson: very affectionate like I've only seen her cry one since when I soak the bathroom trying to clean it. I didn't notice doing I was like seven
Lauren Anderson: And that's the only time I could remember her ever crying. So she, you know, it's, I don't know the two extremes. I guess if she was a little bad to me the step mom so
Gwenevere Abriel: Lauren the treatment that I want to offer you.
I think fits really well with what you're describing, you're talking about an interpersonal attachment wound and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm optimistic.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I want you to not be so distracted physiologically that we can't have these experiences. Now I can't really tell because I'm not in your body. I don't know whether you're fine. Really, and we can proceed forward. I don't know. Right. Um, I
Lauren Anderson: Don't feel very withdrawals he physically. I really don't.
Lauren Anderson: Oh,
Lauren Anderson: It's, I think, more of it is
Lauren Anderson: Just the, the feeling of being okay and feeling motivated to do things with my day.
Lauren Anderson: You know, just having positive energy
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and that do that. We can we can talk about maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Why the motivation, isn't there, and maybe why dopa mean isn't there and why serotonin, isn't there and why sort of that baseline happy isn't there, we can get into the physiology of the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what we've done, sort of, with those drugs to mess with that baseline that that makes sense. And then over time.
Gwenevere Abriel: As you start to normalize and maybe now that the doc is here. I invited her and thank you for making time Dr brielle we can see if we can get you
Gwenevere Abriel: So that all day isn't like this right you supposed to have maybe a half hour in the morning, but most people are sleeping through that worst part.
Lauren Anderson: I don't, I'd still last night, I only slept three, three and a half hours, but the difference was after I took the meds. I did fall asleep right away, which was nice. Usually I'm up for four or five hours just trying to go to sleep. So that was a change
Gwenevere Abriel: But, and, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: If you have
Gwenevere Abriel: Any of that amphetamine or cocaine any stimulant in there that has just got to be gone gone gone gone
Lauren Anderson: Right and
Gwenevere Abriel: You said
Gwenevere Abriel: You said you had five days, right. You think you
Lauren Anderson: Guys great my strong to go. It was like a tiny bit in the morning early like, you know, the beginning of my day. And that's it. Otherwise, I haven't done anything since
Gwenevere Abriel: Which
Lauren Anderson: I did on Wellbutrin
Lauren Anderson: Let's say Today's Tuesday.
Lauren Anderson: Been longer. It was last Wednesday was last Wednesday morning so
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not so we're not talking about a stimulant. So it might be, what's happening is something else. Now we know Seroquel is working for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we know the quantity, maybe let's update. Dr. Aubrey all about what is working and then let's see what else we can do to support you through this. Once you share with her. What you did as far as the Seroquel and the quantity
Lauren Anderson: Oh, okay. Well, I tried the fair cool that first week. The 25 milligrams to help and it didn't do anything at all.
Lauren Anderson: But last night, I took it with one of the Kalani team and I did get tired right away and I slept like straight for three, three and a half hours, which is a big improvement for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, oh, go ahead, go ahead.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, you could you could also increase the Seroquel to 50
Lauren Anderson: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And that that is not a huge dose.
Dawn Abriel: I'm just, I am concerned that
Dawn Abriel: The fact you I think you have it in your mind that taking the buprenorphine at night is helping you sleep and
Dawn Abriel: I really
Dawn Abriel: You would get the most benefit out of the medicine, by taking it first thing in the morning.
Dawn Abriel: Getting your blood level up within an hour, an hour and a half after taking the medicine and having the steady state of the medicine all through the day. I mean, you're at 24 milligrams of buprenorphine now low, a lot of medicine so
Dawn Abriel: You know, taking the the Seroquel in the Clonidine at night with still a high level of buprenorphine in your system.
Dawn Abriel: So that you know but and and it stays in there for you know 3642 hours. So you're taking it at night is kind of a magical thinking on your part that
Lauren Anderson: It wasn't intentional. I just wasn't feeling well. So I kept taking earlier and earlier and then it ended up being 6pm
Dawn Abriel: real important to cake at the same time every day real important in order for you, your body to get accustomed to this medicine.
Dawn Abriel: whatever is happening set an alarm, whatever it is, but take it the same time in the morning, every day, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me ask you to, if we're starting at let's say we take it at six o'clock at PM. How do we get to
Gwenevere Abriel: How do we get to how do we get there, all at once like
Dawn Abriel: Tomorrow morning,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Take it in the morning.
Lauren Anderson: Okay, but to take today's at 6pm so or maybe I should take it a little early tonight.
Dawn Abriel: Now, no. Yeah, because that way by closer reasonable. Yeah.
Lauren Anderson: Okay, I'll pick it up to the meeting. So I'm not talking about dissolving
Dawn Abriel: You bet.
Lauren Anderson: Okay, let me if I run my mouth slug.
Dawn Abriel: That makes sense.
Lauren Anderson: I
Lauren Anderson: Don't get my start helping me also, I, I, I just thought I would be a little more
Lauren Anderson: Bill, a little more optimistic.
Lauren Anderson: About it now.
Dawn Abriel: Within know look all opioids have a an effect on serotonin. So as the opioids are up and you've got a lot of dopa mean being
Dawn Abriel: Created because of the opioids it suppresses the serotonin. It makes people depressed.
Dawn Abriel: So that's one of the reasons I taper everyone. We've got to get your eventually got to get that down. See your serotonin can come back up.
Dawn Abriel: Or we put you on an antidepressant that artificially brings the serotonin up. But no, you are not going to feel Groovy here for a while because you're on so much opioid the long acting opioids, but still it causes depression.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then the behavioral health King carp come in here. If you can say the meaning I make out of this low motivation is the following. My body is getting used to this.
Lauren Anderson: I will get better.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will get better. This is not depression. I'm right. This is chemistry.
Gwenevere Abriel: A run in a chemistry experiment here.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's okay, I'm
Lauren Anderson: Here you permanently know
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right, it's okay, I'm going to get through today. Today is a day. I'm going to be a little slug. I'm just going to slog through today. I'm okay. I'm lovable. I'm okay. Just me and my dog. Okay. Lots of folks with him.
Lauren Anderson: I think now that you mentioned that I realized that I think that's I'm more afraid of it being enough. This is how it from now on, then that's when then today not doing stuff. It's
Dawn Abriel: Where it will pass you will. You've got to rewire, you've got to retrain your brain and the work with Guinier
Dawn Abriel: Creates that opportunity for your brain to change because once you get the incentive and the understanding that you have to generate your own doping mean with self care with finding joy with finding things that that make pleasure that
Dawn Abriel: You know they're there they are. They can't compare to math, they just can't. But so they start getting you in the habit of creating your own doper mean and not relying on it from the outside so
Gwenevere Abriel: So a substance introduces into the body. This amount of
Dawn Abriel: Show a picture.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of a dope. I mean, right, it's, it says, I'm going to allow this much dopamine release.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's artificial it's inhuman it's alien should never happen. Watch this is how
Gwenevere Abriel: This is how much we naturally produce
With a sunset.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did this. So now your brains waiting for this.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what we produce and you want to hurry up and say what's up, bring give it a chance to heal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you were doing this. That's what's happening. It's expecting all of this to come in. By the way, this domain is not the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: As a satisfied life which is serotonin production.
Gwenevere Abriel: This dopa mean well there goes my fingers, it inhibits long term happiness hormone
Gwenevere Abriel: Of the serotonin to actually messes with the production of it. So this is really this gets complicated. But if you just picture. Yes, I'm trying, instant gratification, with the dopamine rush. It's inhibiting long term happiness. We can get there, we gotta let your brain recover.
Dawn Abriel: Go ahead, this is this is a little cartoon of this is just baseline, you know, going along. This is the best day ever good hair day
Dawn Abriel: At you know that people love you, you know, you got the job you want everything is just so perfect. This is the amount of dopamine you're succeeding, you're making this is just regular dose of methamphetamine crazy it's
Dawn Abriel: A brain can't compare
Dawn Abriel: It is so huge that you could have you know the best day again just does pales in comparison
Dawn Abriel: So, your brain is remembering this and your brain is saying, hey, go to do that thing that made you feel like this. So it's giving you a false message and
Dawn Abriel: You know, being with going to be here and learning the therapy where you can say, yeah, my brains trying to trick me and I'm going to get in the habit of
Dawn Abriel: You know, exercising meditating doing chicken learning Tai Chi, whatever it is, where you can start manufacturing your own and and feeling that you're manufacturing it that will get you on the road to, you know, then when you're tapering it adds into the possibility of normalizing
Lauren Anderson: Well, I did not do methamphetamine, just to clarify,
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, hope you did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it's kind of
Lauren Anderson: Right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just replace those two
Gwenevere Abriel: So while she's here. I want to let her get back to what she was doing but
Gwenevere Abriel: You have any questions around. See, when you mentioned it was interesting you mentioned Seroquel at 25 what I've been listening. That's typically those people go down to when the 50 doesn't work. So I was surprised you started at 25
Gwenevere Abriel: So just to normalize it like what I'm used to hearing. Again, I'm not a doctor or an RN usually 25 to one when was too much they're waking up sluggish or
Gwenevere Abriel: Were there were some other negative side effects, but either way 50 is low 25 really low and you experienced three hours of sleep. I'm excited about this other 25 milligrams of Seroquel for you.
Lauren Anderson: Well, I think it was a calamity and more than anything, because I took the 25 every night for a week and it did nothing.
Lauren Anderson: Right last
Lauren Anderson: Yeah yeah don't work.
Lauren Anderson: The combo that adding it maybe. Okay. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So a couple of changes. Here's what I'm hearing trying 50 milligrams a circle. I'd like to see you get six hours of sleep at night.
Lauren Anderson: I know it's been
Lauren Anderson: A while. I don't even know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want nine but I want to make a goal we get you to have six
Lauren Anderson: It's been two or three years since I've slept that long. Yeah. And once I'm and should I continue for the rest of the 30 days on those will be turned to someone stick to
Lauren Anderson: The same one also.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Dawn Abriel: And, you know,
Dawn Abriel: It takes a while to have its effect. So let's see how you feel in in a month. And if we need to increase it. We can just to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Here are you recommending an increase in Sarah colon. If you are. Is there enough medicine to get her all the way to the next date of service.
Dawn Abriel: Oh yeah okay there's
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. Do you have any other questions. So we've got will end here you'll take the medicine because now you're getting closer to the morning then tomorrow ticket. When you first get up and
Lauren Anderson: And
Lauren Anderson: You guys know I just have three days supply from yesterday right the for the up north in
Dawn Abriel: I think, yeah, that was to get you to
Lauren Anderson: Disappointment. Okay.
Lauren Anderson: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, any other questions before we let her go love that animation that was really cool. Nice to see ya.
Lauren Anderson: Thank you, Dr.
Dawn Abriel: You're so welcome. Take care. Thank you.
Bye bye.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's talk a little bit about
Gwenevere Abriel: What's coping skills you already have. I don't want to repeat something that you already have a one that I like to teach immediately.
Gwenevere Abriel: Addresses what you were talking about earlier, which is this. I'm feeling emotional and I'm feeling anxious 99.9% of the people that come in here saying the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm treating my social anxiety. I'm treating my trauma. I'm treating my PTSD. I'm treating I've got this marriage that I'm unhappy with oh it's this work their self medicating right what they consider sort of this
Gwenevere Abriel: Anxiety.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're in good company because most people kind of have looked at sort of the off label of benefits of it. And what I want to talk to you about is a way to use your body
Gwenevere Abriel: The Vegas nerve in order to regulate the body and I want to talk to you a little bit about it, but I don't want to repeat something you already know. So when you've been in you've been in a rehab before craft.
Lauren Anderson: Detox just seven days.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. Your whole life. That's the only treatment you've ever had.
Gwenevere Abriel: As far so far. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, okay, you are interested. Good stuff. Then, and I'm excited. I'm going to give everything I have is yours. I don't hold anything for myself if if I could pack everything into 60 minutes I'd give it all to you right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the first one I want to give you and me give you the one thing
Gwenevere Abriel: That most people. And you know what's really cool. I just got a text from someone who said I kid you not, it is one year. I have been off of the buprenorphine still clean
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so excited. And I said, I made some really some information come into the group and you can talk about your story. So I'm really excited. Maybe I'll be able to have him be a guest in our groups, but my point is
Gwenevere Abriel: The one thing that people and I'm gonna teach it to you now that they remember that helps them remember all the other cool things you're going to learn
Gwenevere Abriel: Is die from out of breathing. That's the belly breath or box breathing. Has anyone ever talked to you about the importance of it. The value of it. The science behind it even talk to you taught you how to do it.
Lauren Anderson: Go ahead. Okay.
Lauren Anderson: My mom is a singer and a speech language pathologist. So I've heard a lot of stuff. But I want to, I haven't heard it from a psycho social
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, there
Lauren Anderson: We go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, oh, I'm totally. I love this. So I'm I see myself as sort of a salesperson. So I'm going to sell you this idea
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm gonna give it my best shot. Now the neat thing about this is you don't have to believe it for it to work. It's not psychological okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body has nerves, which you already know that there's a nerve called the Vegas nerve that is also called the wandering nerve. It goes to our ears are our facial muscles. This little
Gwenevere Abriel: Bone in our ear, he goes to our lyrics in fairness to our heart to our lungs to our stomach to other organs in our body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember the stomach one, remember the heart. Remember the lungs. Remember the facial muscles that's going to come into this this social medicine part on another day we'll pick that one up. But for now I want you to remember
Gwenevere Abriel: That it's connected to the viscera. Those are your guts. So here's what diaphragm breathing does for you and I'm a call a belly breathing, because that other words, way too long.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is I'm going to give you instruction. You don't have to do it. This is only the explaining and then I'm going to do it again and again and again and again and we'll do it together. So here it is. The instructions are these, you'll be asked to breathe in through your nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: For four seconds while you're breathing in through your nose, you're going to be focusing on sort of the tactile experience of the cool air, maybe even your little nose hairs kind of noticing how they're going in.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the main piece that's important, even if you forget everything else about it is this
Gwenevere Abriel: And when you're breathing in through your nose. You're going to have your hands on your stomach and you're going to actually notice that the shoulders. Don't move. And why don't they move because the air is coming in through
Gwenevere Abriel: top of my lungs and instead it's going down into the bottom of along of what's happening with my hands as I'm pressing in, they're going to come out to hear they're coming out to hear because the bottom of my lung is full. I'm not breathing like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: The differences belly breath. That's actually why I call it because I don't want anyone to forget that we're breathing into the belly expanding it like a balloon. So I'm gonna do it a few times and
Gwenevere Abriel: kind of talk you through this, but this is the key piece. This is the mechanism of change. So it's going to be something like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice that my shoulders didn't rise up and down, but I did was
Gwenevere Abriel: I breathe in through my nose for four seconds I breathe in mindfully paying attention to texture and temperature.
Gwenevere Abriel: As it made its way, I noticed that my hands were pushed out by the expansion of my lower long, then I held my breath for 4321 and then I deliberately exhale out of my mouth and I could feel it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I could feel that my right, my stomach was getting flatter. My hands were coming in and I could feel the air coming out of my mouth and I was concentrating on it and I did it for
Gwenevere Abriel: Four seconds and then I hold it out, no breath and my long for 4321 and then inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale,
Gwenevere Abriel: Pull no breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's going to be inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's the instruction. We're not going to do it still going to keep explaining to the mechanism, why this is science. It's not psychobabble okay
Gwenevere Abriel: This will work, whether you believe in it or you don't.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's what's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: When we're in a stress response up in our head, like I'm a, let's say,
Gwenevere Abriel: There's always going to feel like I'll let's say I've got a story of that I run through my head, which is an accomplished, and I didn't reach my goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm a loser. I might label myself, I've got this running dialogue going and going and coming up with more evidence and I'm in
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm in a neural network in my brain is very negative and it's attached to emotions in my limbic system that are very distressing and I'm feeling sad and scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to feel like that. I'm unproductive. I can't get my to do list. Done. I don't even want to talk to anybody. I want to feel better. So watch what's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Up here, I'm thinking a negative thought about myself. I'm an idiot. I'm a failure and emotionally I'm anxious that's happening right here, up here, guess what happens when I breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: My diaphragm pushes down the Oregon's underneath you know die from great you got medical people that you're you got the singer. So you know what the diaphragm. So the diaphragm pushes down the organs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Underneath it and send a message upward, a fairly upward and says, hey, we're fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now the message from here going, yeah. The message from here going down is time to freak out. I'm a loser. I encode it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Always going to feel like this. That's a fact. I've got fact I've got lots of stories to prove it. So it's up here going like that. And guess what the message coming up this way.
Lauren Anderson: You use the middle finger for that the message.
Lauren Anderson: Well, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'll kind of like, I guess I gotta remember you have a great sense of humor. We're going to go on why
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the thing. So it's incomplete.
Gwenevere Abriel: Contradiction isn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, because guess what if there really was someone in the room we look around right now, I want you to look for actual danger.
Lauren Anderson: But I want to talk to me when my house was cleaner.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's perceived threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Talking about danger that would be a grounding dog at you about to bite you. That would be danger. Right.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm knife, a gun someone about to. Okay.
Lauren Anderson: Right, yeah. Gotcha.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I like it, but I would have explained this little bit anyway. But the point of the matter is up here, you're perceiving danger, you're perceiving it this
Gwenevere Abriel: Is proof. You are not because guess what, there's no way you are breathing deeply if there's a lion or a tiger or a bear no one breeze like that we do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: And our little hands come up here, right. We're ready. We're ready to to protect ourselves or we're ready to run. We're in fight or flight. That's the sympathetic nervous system. What I'm talking about is called a video break
Gwenevere Abriel: The, what did I say earlier the Vegas nerve so Vegas break that's putting a break on this stuff up here. All that rumination of worry and fret and anxiety of here. This is working with the body.
Gwenevere Abriel: And telling that mine that's not true. We're okay. Guess what we get to be in a relaxed body can stay vigilant, you can be conscious and have your eyes open and still know what's going on and be in a
Gwenevere Abriel: I can be in a relaxed body my muscles can relax my heart does not have to demand as much oxygen respiration slows down right
Gwenevere Abriel: I can breathe deep into that belly. That's why the truth be told, it's not because I have dramatic reading so long. It's because belly breathing. I don't want to take a chance at any one forgets the important part. It's the belly expanding why
Gwenevere Abriel: smashes the diaphragm down sends a message up here. Look at us. Look, it is blowing up alone up down here, we must be all right. There's no way. There's no way we're going to read like this, if we're in trouble.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right sends a message total contradiction to the thought, I'm no good. And I'll always be no good. I'll never be happy. It's incomplete.
Lauren Anderson: That's a physical that's a physical message. Good.
Lauren Anderson: And this one is is right.
Lauren Anderson: Now, that's what the message coming from here. Those not about our physical health, necessarily.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we can get into the fact that even up here. This mushy thing we call a brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's still chemistry still
Lauren Anderson: Bother you can help, but I don't, I don't know. Okay, nevermind.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll come back to it very complicated. So we'll take just this one piece of information. And again, I say, you don't have to believe it for it to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you look in history and you look at certain spiritual beliefs, the breath work has been a part of a lot of beliefs, maybe we didn't have the physiological explanation for it before, but we do now.
Gwenevere Abriel: People have known that this works before we even knew we say we'll take a deep breath, man. Watch. Calm down. Okay, well, you know, first, screw you don't tell me what to do but number two.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like we've known it all along. We just didn't really kind of get the science behind it. But now we do
Gwenevere Abriel: So I like to teach it to you again. But in a little slower methodical way and and do it with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'd like it to be useful. So are you open. Well, what do we got we got
Gwenevere Abriel: Like 10 minutes let's see what we can do here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why don't you think of something that's not 100 out of 100 scary horrible thought I don't want the worst thing you've ever thought that maybe just a little like this kind of sucks. I don't like this thought. Just think of maybe about a 50 that's kind of a man. That's kind of a yuck.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you think of one.
Lauren Anderson: I don't know what to ask him.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's okay, well, you're probably already in an anxious mode. So I probably don't even need to tell you what
Gwenevere Abriel: You're probably already in it. So we'll just go with how you're feeling now. So the problem with what I'm seeing with your posture, for example, you're not sitting on my couch.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're sitting over there. And if you were here, I would say, I'd like you just sit up. So the air can actually get in the lungs. Can we do that together. Can we sit up a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let your thought just be whatever it is, whatever is happening in there and just pay attention. Let's do a little body scan.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just sort of pay attention to what catches your attention where you notice there's tension or maybe there's energy shifting
Gwenevere Abriel: Could be a sinking feeling heavy could be nasza some people notice tension here, they might notice it got a bit of a headache or their hands are tight. They might notice their foot is tapping
Gwenevere Abriel: They might notice that their chest short shallow breaths. The stomach is turning where there's pain in the back, the knees something happening for you arm. What do you notice, just as you do a little check in with the body a little scan. What did you notice
Lauren Anderson: Physically, a little queasy with maybe a little about my stomach.
I'm
Lauren Anderson: Angry like we've been okay for my bill right here.
Lauren Anderson: Like hurting myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah so queasy. That's an
Lauren Anderson: Estimate on using
Lauren Anderson: My stomach. Yeah.
Uneasy
Gwenevere Abriel: And then also, you notice an emotion of anger.
Lauren Anderson: That's really first emotion for. Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: And in the body that happened to happen the emotion is labelled angry. The body registers queasy in the stomach and you notice something else we be
Lauren Anderson: With for the first one I've realized swelled up top. My throat by
My
Gwenevere Abriel: Top of throat. That's it. And behind the eyes.
Lauren Anderson: Then I'm Clenching my teeth.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there we go. Now we're getting somewhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: clenched teeth weepy this sense of right at the top of the throat. You can feel it sort of sitting right there, let's do this together.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like you to exhale all your air out and I'm going to be guiding for quite a few of these. So let it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now let's have an inhale through the nose for four seconds breathing in filling the bottom of that long breathing it in
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go. Breathe it in and then hold 321 exhale it out of your mouth pushing out to deliberately with pure slips, slow, slow, slow. There we go, there we go, there we go, there we go, there we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Leave it out for 321 and that yummy airs coming in, fill it up to the bottom of your lungs. Breathe it in
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold it in there for 321 feel the air coming out of your mouth pure slips all
Gwenevere Abriel: Temperature and texture feel that belly going flat hold it out still hold still hold
Gwenevere Abriel: And now let's inhale through the nose feel that are coming in and filling up as if a balloon expanding. We don't want those shoulders to rise. We want that belly to expand.
Gwenevere Abriel: And once you reach the full then I lost my count, which is count down, down, down. And when you're ready, let me catch on with you when you do your exhale. There it is. And when you're done good then let's hold 321 let's inhale together. Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful hold 321 excellent all out, push it all out. Nice, long breath, push, push, push it out out out out flat tummy flat tummy flat tummy. Good. Let's count 321 inhale. This nourishing air into the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: A balloon and we're going to hold it for 321 and let's expand lift that arrow. Sorry about that. Let it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Flat. Flat belly good going to hold it out 321 last one. Breathe it in big belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it in there for 321 on this exhale. Let's extend this one as long as we can. Let us little out as you can really extend this breath.
Let it go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just be
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful with the relaxed natural breath that issue. The one that comes naturally. Just be within just notice the difference between this artificial instruction and what comes natural to you just sort of tune inward.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not staring at you. I've got my eyes closed. I'm noticing it to
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's check in with the messengers that were there earlier. Let's check in with what was right here, this throat this job.
Lauren Anderson: To same in here. This stomach parks got
Lauren Anderson: Bill violently angry and like we
Lauren Anderson: Can we be done. Please, I'm sorry. It's part it's social phone
Okay.
Lauren Anderson: I haven't gone to a salon and over 20 years because every time. By the end of it, I'm being
Lauren Anderson: Violently weepy and not violently, but
Lauren Anderson: It's embarrassing. And I feel bad for the stylist, because it's not their fault. It's
Lauren Anderson: The proximity and the social thing for too long. So at this point might be better for me to take a break now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, Lauren. Yes. How does it feel when I stepped off the camera.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does it feel better.
Lauren Anderson: Um, no, no different.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't feel any different.
Lauren Anderson: Without me there.
Lauren Anderson: Doesn't feel any different, you're still there was
Lauren Anderson: I'm sorry, this
Gwenevere Abriel: Is not you're doing it, you're doing you there's nothing to be sorry for you're helping me understand and that's that's useful. So let's schedule another time to meet. Okay, you did great. You just learned something new. You did great.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what you're going to learn is when it comes up when that that tinge of social anxiety that piece comes up, what you'll learn is
Gwenevere Abriel: That's something you can say to me, you can say it's coming up right now. Who is that a 10 now. Oh, now it's 12 and we'll see what I can do with you to bring it back down. You can definitely tell me it's happening is starting to build, we can. I want to know about those things.
Okay.
Lauren Anderson: It's about 2013 and no matter who I'm around if I'm around any other human being I start doing the fast motor speech and I can't I'll drive. I can't shut myself up and tell him away from the people it's irritating to me.
Lauren Anderson: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what we did. And let's schedule another time to meet but you labeled it I'm feeling violently. You said violently angry. Okay, okay. You're teaching us we're getting the words to sort of describe what it's like to be, you know,
Lauren Anderson: But yet, I feel like crying like I'm appears with the but it's anger, mostly. Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Lot a lot of emotions. This thing I taught you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is intended to assist in emotional regulation. Okay. But there's still like out to learn more about what what a relaxed state what immobilization, I've got a lot of stories yet to hear from you. So I've still got some things I need to learn. Okay.
Lauren Anderson: We don't really know relaxed state.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'll learn. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So tell me something. Let's look to next week and I want to know if for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: TODAY, TUESDAY.
Lauren Anderson: At 11 could work. Sure.
Lauren Anderson: Yeah, sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: So yeah, it'll be, if you can believe it April 7
Gwenevere Abriel: Crazy craziness and I just love
Lauren Anderson: This feature.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is saying how fast. Okay, so we have that set
Gwenevere Abriel: And the doctor. I'm sure is working on your prescription, but I'll follow up with a quick little message to let her know ok
Lauren Anderson: OK, I can check right now to because she usually text me a coupon right up short. Let's see your doctor has sent you a discount for your prescription. Yeah, so that's probably she probably sent it already.
Lauren Anderson: You guys are the best.
Lauren Anderson: I'll see
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll see you in group and then I'll see you on Tuesday. You got that one in your phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: For 11am yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. I'll see you later. Bye.
Lauren Anderson: Thank you. Bye.